feat: Advanced Knowledge filtering (#228)
agno-agi/docs: concepts/knowledge/core-concepts/advanced-filtering.mdx

    broad_results = await agent.aget_relevant_docs_from_knowledge(
        query=query,
        filters=base_filters,  # Already a list
        num_documents=10
    )
    
    if len(broad_results) > 8:
        # Too many results, add more specific filters
        specific_filter = AND(
            base_filters[0] if base_filters else EQ("status", "active"),
            GT("relevance_score", 0.8)
        )
        
        return await agent.aget_relevant_docs_from_knowledge(
            query=query,
            filters=[specific_filter],  # ← Wrapped in list
            num_documents=5
        )
    
    return broad_results
```

## Working with Metadata

### Designing Effective Metadata

Good filtering starts with thoughtful metadata design:

```python
# ✅ Rich, searchable metadata
good_metadata = {
    "document_type": "policy",
    "department": "hr", 
    "category": "benefits",
    "audience": "all_employees",
    "last_updated": "2024-01-15",
    "version": "2.1",
    "tags": ["health_insurance", "401k", "vacation"],
    "sensitivity": "internal"
}

# ❌ Sparse, hard to filter metadata  
poor_metadata = {
    "type": "doc",
    "id": "12345"
}
```

> ### Dynamic Metadata Assignment

Reviewer: This is interesting. I'd add this in an accordian, since it is really niche and advanced, but might be a nice pattern for someone

    elif "/engineering/" in file_path:
        metadata["department"] = "engineering"
    
    # Add timestamp
    metadata["indexed_at"] = datetime.now().isoformat()
    
    return metadata

# Use when adding content
for file_path in document_files:
    knowledge.add_content(
        path=file_path,
        metadata=assign_metadata(file_path)
    )
```

## Best Practices for Advanced Filtering

### Metadata Strategy

- **Be Consistent**: Use standardized values (e.g., always "hr" not sometimes "HR" or "human_resources")
- **Think Hierarchically**: Use nested categories when appropriate (`department.team`, `location.region`)
- **Include Temporal Data**: Add dates, versions, or other time-based metadata for lifecycle management
- **Add Semantic Tags**: Include searchable tags or keywords that might not appear in the content

### Filter Design

- **Start Simple**: Begin with basic filters and add complexity as needed
- **Test Combinations**: Verify that your logical combinations work as expected
- **Document Your Schema**: Keep track of available metadata fields and their possible values
- **Performance Considerations**: Some filter combinations may be slower than others

> ### Error Handling

Author: Didnt make sense. Removed

        return agent.get_relevant_docs_from_knowledge(query=query)
```

### Vector Database Support

Advanced filter expressions (using `FilterExpr` like `EQ()`, `AND()`, etc.) have varying support across vector databases:

| Vector DB | Dictionary Filters `{"key": "value"}` | FilterExpr `EQ()`, `AND()`, etc. |
|-----------|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| **PgVector** | ✅ Full support | ✅ Full support (native) |
| **LanceDB** | ✅ Post-search filtering | ⚠️ Not yet supported* |
| **ChromaDB** | ✅ Full support | ⚠️ Not yet supported |
| **Pinecone** | ✅ Full support | ⚠️ Not yet supported |
| **Qdrant** | ✅ Full support | ⚠️ Not yet supported |

<Note>
**What happens with unsupported FilterExpr:**

When using `FilterExpr` with unsupported vector databases:
- You'll see: `WARNING: Filter Expressions are not yet supported in [DatabaseName]. No filters will be applied.`
- Search proceeds without filters (unfiltered results)
- No errors thrown, but filtering is ignored

**Workaround:** Use dictionary format instead:
```python
# Works with all vector databases
knowledge_filters=[{"department": "hr", "year": 2024}]

> # Only works with PgVector currently

Reviewer: With more than PgVector right?

```python
# ✅ Works with agentic filtering (agent decides filters dynamically)
knowledge_filters = [{"department": "hr", "document_type": "policy"}]

# ❌ Does not work with agentic filtering (static, predefined logic)
knowledge_filters = [AND(EQ("department", "hr"), EQ("document_type", "policy"))]
```

**When to use each approach:**

| Approach | Use Case | Example |
|----------|----------|---------|
| **Dictionary format** | Agent dynamically chooses filters based on conversation | User mentions "HR policies" → agent adds `{"department": "hr"}` |
| **Filter expressions** | You need complex, predetermined logic with full control | Always exclude drafts AND filter by multiple regions with OR logic |

**Hybrid Approach:**

If you need both agentic decision-making and complex filtering:

```python
from agno.filters import AND, EQ, GT, NOT

# Define filter presets
FILTER_PRESETS = {
    "recent_hr": [AND(EQ("department", "hr"), GT("year", 2023))],
    "active_engineering": [AND(EQ("department", "engineering"), NOT(EQ("status", "archived")))],
    "all_public": [EQ("visibility", "public")]
}

# Agent chooses which preset to use based on context

> def get_filter_for_context(user_query: str):

Reviewer: Where is this used? I don't understand this code

    if "recent" in user_query.lower() and "hr" in user_query.lower():
        return FILTER_PRESETS["recent_hr"]
    # ... more logic
    return None
```

## Using Filters Through the API

All the filter expressions shown in this guide can also be used through the Agent OS API. FilterExpressions serialize to JSON and are automatically reconstructed server-side, enabling the same powerful filtering capabilities over REST endpoints.

```python
import requests
import json
from agno.filters import EQ, GT, AND

# Create filter expression
filter_expr = AND(EQ("status", "published"), GT("views", 1000))

# Serialize to JSON
filter_json = json.dumps(filter_expr.to_dict())

# Send through API
response = requests.post(
    "http://localhost:7777/agents/my-agent/runs",
    data={
        "message": "Find popular published articles",
        "stream": "false",
        "knowledge_filters": filter_json,
    }
)
```

<Note>

> FilterExpressions use a dictionary format with an `"op"` key (e.g., `{"op": "EQ", "key": "status", "value": "published"}`) which tells the API to deserialize them as FilterExpr objects. Regular dict filters without the `"op"` key continue to work for backward compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter expressions use a dictionary format with an `"op"` key (e.g., `{"op": "EQ", "key": "status", "value": "published"}`) which tells the API to deserialize them as filter expression objects. Regular dict filters without the `"op"` key continue to work for backward compatibility.
```
